readme.md, before:

# Learn Spring boot
---

# Table of Contents
- [Learn day - 01](#learn-day---01)
    - [File Structure](#file-structure)
    - [src/main/java (Java source files)](#srcmainjava-java-source-files)
    - [src/main/resources (Configuration files)](#srcmainresources-configuration-files)
    - [src/test/java (Test source files)](#srctestjava-test-source-files)
    - [src/test/resources (Test resources)](#srctestresources-test-resources)
    - [pom.xml (Maven configuration)](#pomxml-maven-configuration)
    - [application.properties (Application configuration)](#applicationproperties-application-configuration)
    - [Learn about SpringBoot MVC (Model-View-Controller) architecture](#learn-about-springboot-mvc-model-view-controller-architecture)
    - [Learn about SpringBoot Annotations](#learn-about-springboot-annotations)
- [Adding Dependencies](#adding-dependencies)
- [Running the Application](#running-the-application)
- [Testing the Application](#testing-the-application)
- [Use of application.properties](#use-of-applicationproperties)
- [SpringBoot MVC](#springboot-mvc)
- [SpringBoot Annotations](#springboot-annotations)
- [SpringBoot Testing](#springboot-testing)

---
## Adding Dependencies
To add dependencies in a Spring Boot project, you can modify the `pom.xml` file if you are using Maven. Here’s how to add a dependency:

1. Open the `pom.xml` file in the root directory of your project.
2. Locate the `<dependencies>` section. If it doesn't exist, you can create one.
3. Add the desired dependency in the following format:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>group-id</groupId>
    <artifactId>artifact-id</artifactId>
    <!-- Optional: specify the version recommended for the dependency -->
    <version>version</version>
</dependency>
```

4. Save the `pom.xml` file.
5. If you are using an IDE like IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse, it may automatically download the new dependency. Otherwise, you can run the following Maven command in the terminal:

```
mvn clean install
```

This will download the specified dependency and make it available in your project.

----

## Running the Application
just use idea to run the application or for alternative you can use the terminal:
```
mvn spring-boot:run
```
---
## Testing the Application
To test the application, you can use the following command in the terminal:
```
mvn test
```
This will run all the tests defined in your project. If you want to run a specific test class, you can use the following command:
```
mvn -Dtest=TestClassName test
```
Replace `TestClassName` with the name of the test class you want to run.

---

## Use of application.properties

The `application.properties` file is used to configure various settings for your Spring Boot application. You can specify properties such as server port, database connection details, logging levels, and more.
Here are some common properties you might find in `application.properties`:
```properties
# Server port
server.port=8080
# Database connection
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/mydb
spring.datasource.username=root
spring.datasource.password=password
# App name 
spring.application.name=myapp
# page size
app.page-size=10
stripe.apiurl=https://api.stripe.com
stripe.enabled=true
stripe.timeout=1000
stripe.supported-currencies=USD,EUR,GBP
```

```java
    @Value("${stripe.apiurl}")
    private String apiUrl;

    @Value("${stripe.enabled}")
    private boolean stripeEnabled;

    /// "${stripe.timeout:3000}" this means that if we don't give any value
    /// then it will give default value 3000
    @Value("${stripe.timeout:3000}")
    private int stripeTimeout;

    @Value("${stripe.supported-currencies}")
    private List<String> supportedCurrency;
```
You can add or modify properties in this file to customize the behavior of your application. Spring Boot will automatically read these properties and apply them at runtime.

## SpringBoot MVC
Spring Boot follows the Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture, which separates the application into three interconnected components:
- Model: Represents the data and business logic of the application.
- View: Represents the user interface and displays the data to the user.
- Controller: Handles user requests, interacts with the model, and returns the appropriate view.

This separation of concerns makes it easier to manage and scale the application.
## SpringBoot Annotations
Spring Boot provides several annotations to simplify the development process. Here are some commonly used annotations:
- `@SpringBootApplication`: Indicates that this is a Spring Boot application.
- `@RestController`: Combines `@Controller` and `@ResponseBody`, indicating that the class is a controller and the return values of its methods should be written directly to the HTTP response body.
- `@RequestMapping`: Maps HTTP requests to specific handler methods in the controller.
- `@GetMapping`, `@PostMapping`, `@PutMapping`, `@DeleteMapping`: Shorthand annotations for `@RequestMapping` with specific HTTP methods.
- `@Repository`: Indicates that a class is a Data Access Object (DAO) and should be managed by the Spring container.
- `@Autowired`: Indicates that a dependency should be injected by the Spring container.
- `@Service`: Indicates that a class is a service component in the Spring context.
- `@Component`: Indicates that a class is a Spring component and should be managed by the Spring container.
---

## Dependency injection

What is dependency injection?
ans: Dependency injection is a design pattern used in software development to achieve Inversion of Control (IoC) between classes and their dependencies. It allows a class to receive its dependencies from an external source rather than creating them itself, promoting loose coupling and enhancing testability.
for example:
imagine you have two classes one is `OrderService` and another is payment service `PaymentService` and you want to use the `PaymentService` in the `OrderService` class, you can inject the `PaymentService` into the `OrderService` class using dependency injection.
so by this example you can see that in for payment service you can use any payment service like `PayPal`, `Stripe` or any other payment service, so you can easily switch between them without changing the `OrderService` class.
Here is an example of how you can implement dependency injection in Spring Boot using annotations:
```java
@Service
public class OrderService {
    private final PaymentService paymentService;

    @Autowired
    public OrderService(PaymentService paymentService) {
        this.paymentService = paymentService;
    }
    public void placeOrder(Order order) {
        // Use paymentService to process the payment
        paymentService.processPayment(order.getPaymentDetails());
        // Logic to place the order
    }
}
@Service
public class PaymentService {
    public void processPayment(PaymentDetails paymentDetails) {
        // Logic to process the payment
    }
}
```
In this example, `OrderService` depends on `PaymentService`, and the `PaymentService` is injected into the `OrderService` constructor. This allows for better separation of concerns and makes it easier to test the `OrderService` class by mocking the `PaymentService`.

In OOP, the Open/Closed Principle states that a class should be open for extension but closed for modification. This means that you can extend the functionality of a class without modifying its existing code. Dependency injection helps achieve this by allowing you to inject different implementations of a dependency without changing the class that uses it.
This makes your code more flexible and maintainable, as you can easily switch between different implementations of a dependency without changing the class that uses it.
(keep it in mind that this is a tool not a rule, so you can use it when you need it, but don't overuse it)

### Setter Injection

Setter injection is another way to implement dependency injection in Spring Boot. In this approach, the dependency is provided through a setter method rather than through the constructor. Here's an example:

```java
@Service
public class OrderService {
    private PaymentService paymentService;

    @Autowired
    public void setPaymentService(PaymentService paymentService) {
        this.paymentService = paymentService;
    }

    public void placeOrder(Order order) {
        // Use paymentService to process the payment
        paymentService.processPayment(order.getPaymentDetails());
        // Logic to place the order
    }
}
```
In this example, the `PaymentService` is injected into the `OrderService` using a setter method. This allows for more flexibility, as the dependency can be changed at runtime if needed.

```java
@Service
public class PaymentService {
    public void processPayment(PaymentDetails paymentDetails) {
        // Logic to process the payment
    }
}
```
In this example, `OrderService` depends on `PaymentService`, and the `PaymentService` is injected into the `OrderService` constructor. This allows for better separation of concerns and makes it easier to test the `OrderService` class by mocking the `PaymentService`.

### Spring IoC Container
IoC means Inversion of Control. It is a design principle in which the control of object creation and management is transferred from the application code to a container or framework. In the context of Spring, the IoC container is responsible for instantiating, configuring, and managing the lifecycle of application objects, known as beans.

this is use for Dependancy injection using springboot framework
two ways possible 
    - by annotation
    - by code implementation

### By Annotation

make the class with `@Service` because it indicates that the class is a service component in the Spring context.

```java

import org.springframework.stereotype.Service;

@Service
public class OrderService {
    private final PaymentService paymentService;

    ///  if we have multiple constructor then AutoWired is important
    /// in single constructor doesn't really need it
//    @Autowired
    public OrderService(@Qualifier("paypal") PaymentService paymentService) {
        this.paymentService = paymentService;
    }

    public void placeOrder() {
        paymentService.processPayment(10);
    }
}
```
`@Autowired` is for multi-constructor injection for single constructor there are no need to use it, and also make the payment service class with `@Service` annotation.
```java
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Primary;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Service;

@Service("strip")
@Primary
public class StripPaymentService implements PaymentService {
    @Override
    public void processPayment(double amount) {
        System.out.println("STRIPE");
        System.out.println("amount: " + amount);
    }
}
```
here `@Primary` indicates that this is the primary implementation of the `PaymentService` interface.
because if there are multiple beans of the same type, Spring will use the one marked with `@Primary` by default.

 In the Main method, declare ApplicationContext and then getBean of the class
```java
import org.springframework.context.ApplicationContext;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.AnnotationConfigApplicationContext;

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        ApplicationContext context = new AnnotationConfigApplicationContext(AppConfig.class);
        OrderService orderService = context.getBean(OrderService.class);
        // Use orderService to place an order
    }
}
```
## Implementing Notification Service in Spring Boot

To implement a notification system in Spring Boot, you can use dependency injection to inject different notification services (like Email, SMS, or Push notifications) into your application. Here’s a step-by-step tutorial:

### 1. Define a NotificationService Interface

Create an interface that defines the contract for sending notifications:

```java
public interface NotificationService {
    void sendNotification(String message, String recipient);
}
```

### 2. Create Implementations

You can have multiple implementations, such as Email and SMS:

```java
import org.springframework.stereotype.Service;

@Service("emailNotificationService")
public class EmailNotificationService implements NotificationService {
    @Override
    public void sendNotification(String message, String recipient) {
        // Logic to send email
        System.out.println("Sending EMAIL to " + recipient + ": " + message);
    }
}

@Service("smsNotificationService")
public class SmsNotificationService implements NotificationService {
    @Override
    public void sendNotification(String message, String recipient) {
        // Logic to send SMS
        System.out.println("Sending SMS to " + recipient + ": " + message);
    }
}
```

### 3. Inject NotificationService into Your Business Logic

Use constructor injection and `@Qualifier` to specify which implementation to use:

```java
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Qualifier;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Service;


@Service
public class NotificationManager {
    private final NotificationService notificationService;

    @Autowired
    public NotificationManager(@Qualifier("emailNotificationService") NotificationService notificationService) {
        this.notificationService = notificationService;
    }

    public void notifyOrderPlaced(Order order) {
        notificationService.sendNotification("Order placed successfully!", order.getCustomerEmail());
    }
}
```

### 4. Switch Implementations Easily

To use a different notification method, change the `@Qualifier` value in the constructor. This demonstrates the flexibility of dependency injection.

### 5. Test the Notification

You can test the notification service by running your application and placing an order. The appropriate notification will be sent based on the injected implementation.

---

This approach allows you to add new notification types (like push notifications) without modifying existing business logic, following the Open/Closed Principle.

Commit message:

Add application.yaml configuration file for Spring Boot settings

readme.md, after:

# Learn Spring boot
---

# Table of Contents
- [Learn day - 01](#learn-day---01)
    - [File Structure](#file-structure)
    - [src/main/java (Java source files)](#srcmainjava-java-source-files)
    - [src/main/resources (Configuration files)](#srcmainresources-configuration-files)
    - [src/test/java (Test source files)](#srctestjava-test-source-files)
    - [src/test/resources (Test resources)](#srctestresources-test-resources)
    - [pom.xml (Maven configuration)](#pomxml-maven-configuration)
    - [application.properties (Application configuration)](#applicationproperties-application-configuration)
    - [Learn about SpringBoot MVC (Model-View-Controller) architecture](#learn-about-springboot-mvc-model-view-controller-architecture)
    - [Learn about SpringBoot Annotations](#learn-about-springboot-annotations)
- [Adding Dependencies](#adding-dependencies)
- [Running the Application](#running-the-application)
- [Testing the Application](#testing-the-application)
- [Use of application.properties](#use-of-applicationproperties)
- [SpringBoot MVC](#springboot-mvc)
- [SpringBoot Annotations](#springboot-annotations)
- [SpringBoot Testing](#springboot-testing)

---
## Adding Dependencies
To add dependencies in a Spring Boot project, you can modify the `pom.xml` file if you are using Maven. Here’s how to add a dependency:

1. Open the `pom.xml` file in the root directory of your project.
2. Locate the `<dependencies>` section. If it doesn't exist, you can create one.
3. Add the desired dependency in the following format:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>group-id</groupId>
    <artifactId>artifact-id</artifactId>
    <!-- Optional: specify the version recommended for the dependency -->
    <version>version</version>
</dependency>
```

4. Save the `pom.xml` file.
5. If you are using an IDE like IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse, it may automatically download the new dependency. Otherwise, you can run the following Maven command in the terminal:

```
mvn clean install
```

This will download the specified dependency and make it available in your project.

----

## Running the Application
just use idea to run the application or for alternative you can use the terminal:
```
mvn spring-boot:run
```
---
## Testing the Application
To test the application, you can use the following command in the terminal:
```
mvn test
```
This will run all the tests defined in your project. If you want to run a specific test class, you can use the following command:
```
mvn -Dtest=TestClassName test
```
Replace `TestClassName` with the name of the test class you want to run.

---

## Use of application.properties

The `application.properties` file is used to configure various settings for your Spring Boot application. You can specify properties such as server port, database connection details, logging levels, and more.
Here are some common properties you might find in `application.properties`:
```properties
# Server port
server.port=8080
# Database connection
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/mydb
spring.datasource.username=root
spring.datasource.password=password
# App name 
spring.application.name=myapp
# page size
app.page-size=10
stripe.apiurl=https://api.stripe.com
stripe.enabled=true
stripe.timeout=1000
stripe.supported-currencies=USD,EUR,GBP
```

```java
    @Value("${stripe.apiurl}")
    private String apiUrl;

    @Value("${stripe.enabled}")
    private boolean stripeEnabled;

    /// "${stripe.timeout:3000}" this means that if we don't give any value
    /// then it will give default value 3000
    @Value("${stripe.timeout:3000}")
    private int stripeTimeout;

    @Value("${stripe.supported-currencies}")
    private List<String> supportedCurrency;
```
You can add or modify properties in this file to customize the behavior of your application. Spring Boot will automatically read these properties and apply them at runtime.

## Use of application.yaml

The `application.yaml` file serves a similar purpose as `application.properties`, but it uses YAML syntax, which is more human-readable and supports hierarchical data structures.`yaml` means `Yet another markup language`. You can define your configuration properties in `application.yaml` like this:
```yaml
server:
  port: 8080
spring:
  datasource:
    url: jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/mydb
    username: root
    password: password
  application:
    name: myapp
app:
  page-size: 10
stripe:
  apiurl: https://api.stripe.com
  enabled: true
  timeout: 1000
  supported-currencies: USD,EUR,GBP
```

## SpringBoot MVC
Spring Boot follows the Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture, which separates the application into three interconnected components:
- Model: Represents the data and business logic of the application.
- View: Represents the user interface and displays the data to the user.
- Controller: Handles user requests, interacts with the model, and returns the appropriate view.

This separation of concerns makes it easier to manage and scale the application.
## SpringBoot Annotations
Spring Boot provides several annotations to simplify the development process. Here are some commonly used annotations:
- `@SpringBootApplication`: Indicates that this is a Spring Boot application.
- `@RestController`: Combines `@Controller` and `@ResponseBody`, indicating that the class is a controller and the return values of its methods should be written directly to the HTTP response body.
- `@RequestMapping`: Maps HTTP requests to specific handler methods in the controller.
- `@GetMapping`, `@PostMapping`, `@PutMapping`, `@DeleteMapping`: Shorthand annotations for `@RequestMapping` with specific HTTP methods.
- `@Repository`: Indicates that a class is a Data Access Object (DAO) and should be managed by the Spring container.
- `@Autowired`: Indicates that a dependency should be injected by the Spring container.
- `@Service`: Indicates that a class is a service component in the Spring context.
- `@Component`: Indicates that a class is a Spring component and should be managed by the Spring container.
---

## Dependency injection

What is dependency injection?
ans: Dependency injection is a design pattern used in software development to achieve Inversion of Control (IoC) between classes and their dependencies. It allows a class to receive its dependencies from an external source rather than creating them itself, promoting loose coupling and enhancing testability.
for example:
imagine you have two classes one is `OrderService` and another is payment service `PaymentService` and you want to use the `PaymentService` in the `OrderService` class, you can inject the `PaymentService` into the `OrderService` class using dependency injection.
so by this example you can see that in for payment service you can use any payment service like `PayPal`, `Stripe` or any other payment service, so you can easily switch between them without changing the `OrderService` class.
Here is an example of how you can implement dependency injection in Spring Boot using annotations:
```java
@Service
public class OrderService {
    private final PaymentService paymentService;

    @Autowired
    public OrderService(PaymentService paymentService) {
        this.paymentService = paymentService;
    }
    public void placeOrder(Order order) {
        // Use paymentService to process the payment
        paymentService.processPayment(order.getPaymentDetails());
        // Logic to place the order
    }
}
@Service
public class PaymentService {
    public void processPayment(PaymentDetails paymentDetails) {
        // Logic to process the payment
    }
}
```
In this example, `OrderService` depends on `PaymentService`, and the `PaymentService` is injected into the `OrderService` constructor. This allows for better separation of concerns and makes it easier to test the `OrderService` class by mocking the `PaymentService`.

In OOP, the Open/Closed Principle states that a class should be open for extension but closed for modification. This means that you can extend the functionality of a class without modifying its existing code. Dependency injection helps achieve this by allowing you to inject different implementations of a dependency without changing the class that uses it.
This makes your code more flexible and maintainable, as you can easily switch between different implementations of a dependency without changing the class that uses it.
(keep it in mind that this is a tool not a rule, so you can use it when you need it, but don't overuse it)

### Setter Injection

Setter injection is another way to implement dependency injection in Spring Boot. In this approach, the dependency is provided through a setter method rather than through the constructor. Here's an example:

```java
@Service
public class OrderService {
    private PaymentService paymentService;

    @Autowired
    public void setPaymentService(PaymentService paymentService) {
        this.paymentService = paymentService;
    }

    public void placeOrder(Order order) {
        // Use paymentService to process the payment
        paymentService.processPayment(order.getPaymentDetails());
        // Logic to place the order
    }
}
```
In this example, the `PaymentService` is injected into the `OrderService` using a setter method. This allows for more flexibility, as the dependency can be changed at runtime if needed.

```java
@Service
public class PaymentService {
    public void processPayment(PaymentDetails paymentDetails) {
        // Logic to process the payment
    }
}
```
In this example, `OrderService` depends on `PaymentService`, and the `PaymentService` is injected into the `OrderService` constructor. This allows for better separation of concerns and makes it easier to test the `OrderService` class by mocking the `PaymentService`.

### Spring IoC Container
IoC means Inversion of Control. It is a design principle in which the control of object creation and management is transferred from the application code to a container or framework. In the context of Spring, the IoC container is responsible for instantiating, configuring, and managing the lifecycle of application objects, known as beans.

this is use for Dependancy injection using springboot framework
two ways possible 
    - by annotation
    - by code implementation

### By Annotation

make the class with `@Service` because it indicates that the class is a service component in the Spring context.

```java

import org.springframework.stereotype.Service;

@Service
public class OrderService {
    private final PaymentService paymentService;

    ///  if we have multiple constructor then AutoWired is important
    /// in single constructor doesn't really need it
//    @Autowired
    public OrderService(@Qualifier("paypal") PaymentService paymentService) {
        this.paymentService = paymentService;
    }

    public void placeOrder() {
        paymentService.processPayment(10);
    }
}
```
`@Autowired` is for multi-constructor injection for single constructor there are no need to use it, and also make the payment service class with `@Service` annotation.
```java
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Primary;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Service;

@Service("strip")
@Primary
public class StripPaymentService implements PaymentService {
    @Override
    public void processPayment(double amount) {
        System.out.println("STRIPE");
        System.out.println("amount: " + amount);
    }
}
```
here `@Primary` indicates that this is the primary implementation of the `PaymentService` interface.
because if there are multiple beans of the same type, Spring will use the one marked with `@Primary` by default.

 In the Main method, declare ApplicationContext and then getBean of the class
```java
import org.springframework.context.ApplicationContext;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.AnnotationConfigApplicationContext;

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        ApplicationContext context = new AnnotationConfigApplicationContext(AppConfig.class);
        OrderService orderService = context.getBean(OrderService.class);
        // Use orderService to place an order
    }
}
```
## Implementing Notification Service in Spring Boot

To implement a notification system in Spring Boot, you can use dependency injection to inject different notification services (like Email, SMS, or Push notifications) into your application. Here’s a step-by-step tutorial:

### 1. Define a NotificationService Interface

Create an interface that defines the contract for sending notifications:

```java
public interface NotificationService {
    void sendNotification(String message, String recipient);
}
```

### 2. Create Implementations

You can have multiple implementations, such as Email and SMS:

```java
import org.springframework.stereotype.Service;

@Service("emailNotificationService")
public class EmailNotificationService implements NotificationService {
    @Override
    public void sendNotification(String message, String recipient) {
        // Logic to send email
        System.out.println("Sending EMAIL to " + recipient + ": " + message);
    }
}

@Service("smsNotificationService")
public class SmsNotificationService implements NotificationService {
    @Override
    public void sendNotification(String message, String recipient) {
        // Logic to send SMS
        System.out.println("Sending SMS to " + recipient + ": " + message);
    }
}
```

### 3. Inject NotificationService into Your Business Logic

Use constructor injection and `@Qualifier` to specify which implementation to use:

```java
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Qualifier;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Service;


@Service
public class NotificationManager {
    private final NotificationService notificationService;

    @Autowired
    public NotificationManager(@Qualifier("emailNotificationService") NotificationService notificationService) {
        this.notificationService = notificationService;
    }

    public void notifyOrderPlaced(Order order) {
        notificationService.sendNotification("Order placed successfully!", order.getCustomerEmail());
    }
}
```

### 4. Switch Implementations Easily

To use a different notification method, change the `@Qualifier` value in the constructor. This demonstrates the flexibility of dependency injection.

### 5. Test the Notification

You can test the notification service by running your application and placing an order. The appropriate notification will be sent based on the injected implementation.

---

This approach allows you to add new notification types (like push notifications) without modifying existing business logic, following the Open/Closed Principle.
